# What's under the hood in Thyme?

Thyme is focused on being community-based. As such, we try our best to use open-source software in the development of
Thyme so we can further the world of FOSS (free, open-source software). Everything is good when it's free, right? Plus
if we can do it for free, then so can anyone.

A part of being open-source is explaining how we did what we did and why. Here's a quick rundown:

## Some Technical Details

---

> (WARNING: technical jargon ahead)

### Why we use Sanic

> (Quick and dirty)

Pretty much all of our backend is Python, with the exception of processing programs written in C. Most of our server
uses [**Sanic**](https://GitHub.com/channelcat/sanic). Sanic uses libuv (asyncio except much *fast*er!) for its
networking so it's speedy like Go with the obvious benefit of being written in the friendly "psuedocode" Python. The
biggest downside to Sanic is the lacking documentation which definitely was a work-around. Otherwise, it's pretty much a
fast async Flask. A big benefit of Sanic is its extensibility. There were already lots of extensions to choose from such
as ratelimiting and Jinja2, to name a few.

### How files are served

> (AKA Templating and Markdown: A Love Story)

Pretty much all files on Thyme are served dynamically (i.e. each page is specially shown so it's different for everyone).
Because so many pages are dynamic, we figured the overhead of a static file server (such as nginx or Apache) wasn't
worth the few static files that needed to be served. Instead, we just use Sanic for both dynamic and static
content/pages. Most dynamic content is *first* processed server-wise and *then* shot over the tubes of the Internet.
Some however, like the homepage with custom recommendations, are *first* sent to you and *then* your computer requests
and loads information on the fly. That's all done with the user-API and endpoints to get images and text. All the
"backend-dynamic" files use a thing called templating. That's where you write some HTML with variables in it and the
server replaces the variables with the proper content. For that, we thought about using Jinja but realized in the end a
custom-made solution will be more familiar (and therefore faster to type) and will have less overhead space-wise.
Additionally, we can easily extend our templater. With our templater, we can use HTML such as

```html
<div id="user">
    <p id="name">{{ username }}</p>
    <img id="pfp" src="{{ pfp_link }}" />
</div>
```

and feed it through Python like

```python3
return template("index.html", username="adamthedog", pfp_link="../static/adamthedog/profile.png")
```

to get a dynamic page that appears static to the client. Finally, we occasionally use a combination of the two methods.
In the viewing page of a video, for example, we change the name of the video, the description, etc. dynamically in the
backend and comments are loaded using endpoints on the client (in the frontend). We also serve blog posts in markdown so
your client can change how you see blogs on the fly or you can easily still use browser features like reader-mode
without a problem.

# Finish the rest later: we only have HTML files done, no real good words on how we'll do images, video, audio, and how we store it